Sasebo Community,

USFJ released an updated Public Health Order, please see later in the email
(very important).  Below I discuss a few changes and things coming up.
There are now 947 positive COVID-19 cases in Kyushu and five positive cases
in Sasebo City (see attachments 1 & 2).  Fukuoka has over 600 cases and
growing so please be very careful with others you come into contact with.

**************
* Attachments   *
**************
1) Kyushu Cases
2) Nagasaki Prefecture Cases
3) USFJ Public Health Order (read carefully)
4) Contact Tracing Log, Word
5) Contact Tracing Log, Excel 

**********    
* Updates  *
**********
1)  Unfortunately, the thermometers we received will not be able to be used
at the entrances to buildings like we had planned.  According to the
technical manual for our thermometers, the person being tested must stay
indoors for 30 minutes before measuring body temperature (the person and the
infrared thermometer should be at the same ambient temperature for at least
30 minutes).  Having said this, verbal screening will continue at each
tenant and CFAS command.  The best hours to complete this are 0600-0800.
Thermometers are to be used randomly throughout the day (like a RAM) and
after the employee has been at work for at least 30 minutes.  

2)  Air conditioning (A/C) season is starting.  A/C units will start to be
turned on today and will continue through the 7th of May.  Once your
building has its A/C turned on, building doors and windows will need to be
shut.  Personal hygiene will become that more important because folks will
have to physically open and close doors.  Unfortunately, this is required
because if doors are left open, A/C's will overload and possibly fail, which
would be very bad for a Sasebo summer.

3)  Please see attachment 3 and the quote below.  Below are very important
new requirements throughout Japan.
BEGIN QUOTE:  All active duty military personnel within Japan (which term
includes any reservist currently serving with the U.S. Armed Forces and
members of the National Guard) shall maintain a daily 'contact tracing'
record in the event they should become a COVID-19 case.  This is
accomplished by recording daily date, time, location, and duration of
contact with individuals whom would meet contact tracing conditions as
listed in para 3.d.(8).(b).  Failure to maintain a daily 'contact tracing'
record may result in punishment under Article 92, UCMJ.

- Members of the civilian component, SOFA-status dependents, and Master
Labor Contract, Mariners Contract, and Indirect Hire Agreement employees (LN
employees) are highly encouraged to maintain a daily 'contact tracing'
record.  Failure to do so could result in denial of access to USFJ military
installations.

- Contact tracing conditions:
1. Being within approximately 6 feet (2 meters) of an individual for longer
than 10 minutes;
2. Anyone with whom they had physical contact while caring for, living with,
or visiting;
3. Anyone with whom they shared a health care waiting area; or,
4. Anyone having direct contact with an individual's secretions (e.g., being
coughed or sneezed on, coughing or sneezing on). END QUOTE

- Attachment 4 is a Contact Tracing Log template generated by my staff
following the review of the latest USFJ Force Health Protection Order.  It
is my hope that this product will streamline this process for Sasebo and
assist all of us in keeping an accurate accounting of our close contacts
from here forward.

- This USFJ order also amplifies DoD travel restrictions.  Please review
them to ensure you are in sync.

4)  Movie in the Park went well this past weekend.  Everyone respected the
physical distancing policy and had masks in the event they came close to
someone.  Soon, church in Nimitz will be offered, MTF for the RELMIN office.

****************
* Medical Update *
****************
- Updated:  What to do if you are sick:
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/if-you-are-sick/index.html?CDC_AA_
refVal=https%3A%2F%2F 
- Updated:  Other at risk populations:
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/need-extra-precautions/other-at-ri
sk-populations.html

-Attached is another version (attachment 5) of a daily contact log for use
if you would like to utilize this as your daily tracker.

FYI:  The Sasebo Public Health Office completed tests for 53 people (34
patients, 18 co-workers, 1 family mbr) who had contact with the 6th COVID
patient in Sasebo (Aeon case at Chiropractor Office) and all came back
negative.  

- More on Masks:
The purpose of a mask is to prevent the spread of illness from a sick person
to a well person.  From what we understand right now, it appears that once
somebody is infected they may be infectious for 48 hours or longer before
causing any symptoms.  The illness that a person who is well spreads can be
just as deadly as the illness spread by a very sick person.  The intent then
is to prevent unknowingly spreading the illness to others around you as even
though you may have no or little symptoms, it could potentially make someone
else severely ill with the infection.  How can you avoid passing the virus
to other people when you don't even know you are sick?  By wearing a mask,
staying at least 6 feet away from others, and washing your hands.  Remember-
it's not just about you.  We need to protect ourselves and everybody else in
our community, especially those more vulnerable among us.  Keep up the great
work and please continue to heed this advice to keep others safe and break
the chain of transmission. 

Info OB Care:
In the past, we have been able to give the option of choosing between
delivering at the hospital in Yokosuka and delivering locally here in
Sasebo.  Right now because of everything that is happening, delivering in
Yokosuka is not an option for most expectant mothers.  This is not because
we or Yokosuka do not want to help.  It's because the risk of traveling to
the Tokyo area, where they are currently experiencing hospital overruns and
room shortages, is considered to be too high.  This can change based on the
day to day situation.  For those who planned to deliver in Yokosuka we are
available to discuss your options, please reach out to the clinic to make a
phone appointment with your PCM to discuss sooner rather than later.  Japan
provides excellent OB care and the risks to the mother and baby delivering
here in Sasebo are lower than the risk of travel right now, for most cases.
If the idea of delivering here in Sasebo is a game changer, we encourage you
to start to research and plan your delivery options early.  We will not be
able to transfer you to another military hospital unless there is a clear
medical necessity.  While your personal preference of how your labor and
delivery are managed is very important to us, we are unfortunately not able
to transfer you elsewhere unless there is a clear medical indication to do
so.  Our overall goal is to maintain your and your baby's health and safety.
Again, if you have concerns, please make a phone appointment to discuss with
your PCM earlier rather than later.  Trust us, we fight for you each and
every time.  But we need to be prepared for the reality of this very strange
time.

V/R,  
