Sasebo Community,

Kyushu cases are holding pretty steady for now.

Please remember, and I cannot stress this enough, "Contact Tracing" logs are
required by everyone (Japanese, American, Contractor, GS, Civ, Dependent,
etc) on this base and throughout Japan.  Leaders/Supervisors, please spot
check your employees often.  If Contact Tracing logs cannot be produced or
are not maintained/up to date, debarment is authorized and may occur.  This
is very serious because this log is critically important for the
preventative medicine staff to track down all personnel who may have come
into contact with a positive or a suspected positive COVID-19 case.  See
FRAGORD 004 paragraphs (8) and (8a) attached.  

*************
* Attachments *
*************
1) FRAGORD 004 USFJ Force Health Protection Order
2) Nagasaki Prefecture Cases
3) Kyushu Cases

*********************************************
* Unedited ICE and FB questions from the community *
*********************************************
1) Why are we allowed to go to Mt. Yumihari, but not Mt. Eboshi (not to be
confused with Eboshi sports complex)? Mt. Eboshi is significantly larger and
would allow for much greater physical distancing, and lower risk, in
comparison to Mt. Yumihari. Families are driving to Mt. Yumihari to get out
doors, so what's the difference if they drive to Mt. Eboshi? It seems to me
like you should strike Mt. Yumihari from the list, and add Mt. Eboshi,
simply from a risk perspective. Thank you for your consideration.

ANSWER:  Thanks for the question.  First, no one should be driving to Mt
Yumihari.  In update 12 sent on 02 April, the following was posted:
*** For hikers:  You may hike Mt Yumihari and Mt Akasaki for now only.  You
may walk up these mountains from Main Base, Fiddler's Green, Nimitz Park or
Dragon-Vale.  Do not hike in large groups, stay away from crowds and always
maintain social distancing.  Ensure to carry hand sanitizer. ***
I have requested Mt Eboshi to be added to the list, but we have to wait
until the Public Health Emergency is lifted before anything gets added for
now.  No one should be driving anywhere right now except home to work and
brief stops for essentials.

2) In the upcoming weeks I know there a lot of families that will be needing
to finally purchase a vehicle. What restrictions are put in place regarding
that specific purchase?

ANSWER:  I consider a vehicle purchase essential.  If you buy off base,
please ensure you maintain distance, enter people you come across in your
contact tracing log, take Lysol wipes to wipe down the interior of the
vehicle, wear masks and use hand sanitizer.

3) Hello Sir, I would like to work on my car and my motorcycle. However, the
Auto hobby shop is closed. Now I am trying to by tools and equipment to work
of base at my home. Why can't social distancing be practiced at the Auto
hobby shop? There are 3 bays. I suggest leaving the middle bay free. Book by
appointment for a few hours, etc. There are gloves and a window where the
cashier is located. I ask because it is getting very expensive to try and
set up shop at home. However, I have to work on my vehicles to get to and
from work. A good explanation of why this place is closed would be nice. In
my opinion, an element of social distancing was being practiced here already
before the COVID-19 epidemic. Thank you."

ANSWER:  I agree with you that it is easy to physically distance yourself at
the Auto Hobby Shop and I will reopen it as soon as I can.  The reason it is
closed now is quite simple, the Auto Hobby Shop is not essential.  Food,
medicine and house hold items are essential.  We are still in a Public
Health Emergency and until that is lifted, non-essential businesses will
remain closed (gym, dry cleaning, Thrifty Treasures, movie theaters, barber
shop, etc...).  Now with all that said, if you have an emergent need to
repair your primary vehicle, I will have my staff work with folks on a one
on one basis.  Vehicles are essential, but your question did not indicate
that your vehicle needs repair right now, only that you would like to work
on them.  Mini-mart repair is available.

4) Is it okay if we still use the housecleaning service that's allowed on
base for our homes? 

ANSWER:  Please contact me at 252-3444 when you have time.  There should be
no personal house cleaning services on base at all.  No one has been
authorized to escort guests on base since mid-March.  The only cleaners
allowed on base are the paid Navy Contract Cleaners.  All other services
were removed from base last month (taxis, bento-lunches, dry cleaners,
barbers, etc...).  House cleaning services from off base would put the
family at risk due to the unknown off-base contacts of the house cleaner.
If this is happening, please contact me directly.  My first question will
be, how did they get on base?

5) There is a groomer that picks up outside Hario gate, takes your pet and
brings back.  I've seen them used in the recent weeks. Is this acceptable
for us to use?

ANSWER:  There is no evidence that dogs or cats spread COVID-19.  "IF" the
person meets you "outside" of the Hario gate and you are wearing a mask,
maintain distance and record this contact in your contact trace log, I do
not have an issue with this.  I do have an issue with physically going to a
groomer because this isn't an essential stop.  I look at this question the
same as food delivery.  Food delivery is authorized therefore I am okay with
this request.  Please sanitizer the collar, leash and your hands immediately
at pick-up, which must occur outside the Hario gate.

6) I understand that payment by credit/debit card is encouraged over cash. I
wanted to check in that the screens, keypads and stylus pens all over base
are being cleaned regularly? I haven't seen this happening, but could be
unaware of it.

ANSWER:  Yes, they are cleaned regularly.  Some Associates clean more often
than others, but do not be afraid to ask the Associate to wipe off the pad
and stylus before you touch it.

7)  I'm not sure why Mr. XXXX XXXXXXX (protecting the name) thinks it's okay
to take his mask off while giving trainings. He coughs and blow his nose
multiple times while in front of the trainees. Is that okay??

ANSWER:  I appreciate the question and my response is similar to question 5
from yesterday.  If you "see something" "say something".  I need everyone to
own this, get involved and be accountable.  If you see something that just
isn't right or it concerns you, say something right then and there.  At a
minimum, please pull the person aside and politely explain your concerns.

8)  AFN service.  CFAS only offers AFN channels in SD, while Yokota has
upgraded to HD digital signal for AFN.  When will CFAS be making this
change?  The picture quality for AFN on CFAS is extremely low quality,
especially when compared to 2020 television standards.

ANSWER:  Couple of points here.  CFAS doesn't own AFN or the cable provider.
CFAS also doesn't directly deal with AMERICABLE.  That license is held at
the Region level.  Yokota's cable provider allows the HD output for the AFN
channels.  AFN only provides the content, the cable provider is responsible
for how the content is distributed.  In this case, this is a question for
Americable.  I can say Okinawa is also SD so CFAS is not the only base that
has it.

9)  Americable internet service and price.  Americable's fastest internet
package is 600 Mb/s for $150/month.  Yokota's Allies Telesis offers 1 Gb/s
fiber optic service for $99/month.  Sasebo internet options out in town
offer 1 Gb/s internet for prices ranging from $30-50/month.  I would like to
know when CFAS intends to renegotiate their contract with Americable to
provide more competitive pricing and higher quality service.  I have sent
this same ICE comment to Americable, but received what amounted to a *shrug*
as an answer because on-base residents have no other option, and thus
Americable has no price competition.

ANSWER:  Again, CFAS doesn't negotiate the agreement with Americable.  This
is being worked up in Yokosuka and there will be a lot more to follow.
Yokota falls under the Air Force, different funding source and different
agreement.  Stay patient, lots of folks are working this issue and we will
get back to everyone as soon as we know more.

**************
* Legal Update  *
**************
The Sasebo Legal Assistance Office will host its semi-annual passport
outreach event with staff from the U.S. Consulate in Fukuoka.  The event
will take place as previously announced on 29 May 2020; however, the event
will be held at PW-47 and not at the FFSC classroom.  Due to COVID-19
mitigation measures, the event will be available to **ONLY**new born
First-time Child
Passport and Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) applicants.  Those
interested in having an appointment must have their documents reviewed by
Legal Assistance Staff before they are given an appointment time.  Persons
interested in getting an appointment can call the Legal Assistance Office at
DSN 252-3347/comm: 0956-50-3347 or email at
saseboLegalAssistance@fe.navy.mil for more information. 

Please note that we will NOT process child passport renewals, 1st time adult
applicants, or adult renewals.  Adult renewals can be completed entirely
through the mail.  Adults and children who already have passports may be
able to travel on official (no-fee) passports in emergency situations such
as an evacuation (if ever required).  Active Duty personnel can travel back
to the
United States with their military ID and orders.  Please contact the legal
assistance office if you have any questions.  More information is also
available on the Consulate website at
https://jp.usembassy.gov/embassy-consulates/fukuoka/.
