Sasebo Community,

Below are several questions I received from folks yesterday/today via ICE.
I simply cut & pasted the question and provided a response under your
question.

Starting 01 May, the galley credit card machine will be online and the
handling of paper money will decrease drastically.  The goal is to
eventually go cashless.  Please get this word out to all hands.  One more
mitigation in place against COVID-19.

Please remember, and as directed by the Secretary of Defense, masks are
required on base and when you cannot maintain 6ft of physical distancing.
When you are in a vehicle, you cannot maintain physical distancing.  If you
are in a car and traveling with passengers, you are all required to wear a
mask (this too applies to everyone).  The only exception to this is if
traveling alone or with small children.  To defeat COVID-19, we need to
distance ourselves from each other, wear a mask, clean our spaces often and
maintain strict personal hygiene.

*************
* Attachments *
*************
1) Nagasaki Prefecture Cases
2) Kyushu Cases
3) Updated CFAS Public Health Order

***************************************
* Unedited ICE questions from the community *
***************************************
1) Please confirm a provision, perhaps a letter of exception, for those with
special needs who may have an aversion to wearing a mask. Understandably,
there has been consideration for 2 and under but there are also sensory and
others needs that may make the wearing of a mask very difficult for even an
older child. Some errands are unavoidable and children can't always be left
home safely, due to age or ability, and the parent is left no choice but to
go to VRO, commissary, NEX, etc but this can prove to be an enormous
challenge and potentially lengthy process to attempt to have the child wear
a mask. Please consider special needs and address this concern. Having to
individually explain the situation, or attempt to, at every potential
location, can be tedious, embarrassing and unproductive. Can we make a
change to avoid a scene? Thank you.

ANSWER:  Please contact CMC Johnson (252-3521) to explain your special needs
so we can understand your situation better and possibly help you.  We have
programs in place with the NEX and the commissary to get your groceries and
essentials delivered.  You can also f you need help, please contact Chaplain
Carson at 252-2150 or Philip.carson@fe.navy.mil.

2) I'm very concerned that we are not doing enough to screen people here in
CFAS. I find it wreck less to not check temperatures at the very least. Just
asking questions in which anyone can answer the right way does not do the
base any good. It actually I'm my opinion allows our base to be susceptible
to the coronavirus because we are not testing. Yes Sasebo has 5, but truly
that is an understatement. I'm just trying to say we need to do more. Take
temperatures at the least. Administer random testing. Especially for
employees who work with our local counter parts who live outside CFAS
perimeter.  Every base conducts these screenings. Why are we behind. We need
to do more it truly the safety, health and well-being is truly a top
priority. 
The gate checkers should be screened as well. Seen many of them coughing and
sneezing.

ANSWER:  We are not behind and in most areas we are out in front with the
measures we have in place.  Regarding thermometers, they arrived late last
week and we started testing at the building entrances last Friday.  We
quickly determined that the thermometers were not effective/accurate because
the person and the thermometer have to be at the same temperature for at
least 30 minutes before they can give an accurate reading.  Yesterday and
today we started verbal screenings in ALL buildings and random temperature
checks throughout the day (the only way the thermometer is accurate).
Screenings at security and the fire stations have been in place for weeks
and the NEX, Galley, MWR and commissary are screening their employees.  In
addition, everyone is now required to maintain a "contact trace" log, which
was directed yesterday.  I am on the phone with every base CO in the Region
6 days/week and unfortunately all of us have had challenges with inaccurate
thermometers.  With respect to folks coughing and sneezing, it is the
allergy season and I for one suffer from this too.  Coughing and sneezing is
quite normal for this time of year but this is another reason why we are all
wearing masks.  Wearing a mask, maintaining distance and strict hygiene will
keep you safe. 

3) If you were going to state that COVID-19 related questions/comments
should not be posted here, please provide the alternative location via a
link/page. Also, please do not exclusively state Facebook because not
everybody has that and that is not, and should not be, an official means of
communication for personnel to receive critical information.  Thank you.

ANSWER:  Questions via ICE are fine, no need for Facebook.

4) Forgive me if this is the incorrect forum for these types of questions,
but I am a Sasebo-based sailor currently on patrol with dependents living in
MFH. Considering the barbers/salons on base are currently not available, is
getting a haircut out in town permissible for dependents? For service
members? Thank you.

ANSWER:  Unfortunately for now, no.  There is no real way to accurately
"contact trace" all personnel from a salon or barber in town.  Grooming
standards have been eased for all military.  Visiting a salon or a barber in
town whose profession is to get close to people all day long would place
your dependent at risk, which in turn would put the base at risk.

5) Many young sailors are still not practicing social distancing. I bought
some takeout food at the HVC CLUB CHOPS and seen these young sailors
congregating and taking off there masks on and off. It is imperative that
you close these non-essential establishments immediately for the safety and
wellbeing of all. The USFJ COMMANDER JUST DECLARED A STATE OF EMERGENCY OF
ALL JAPAN US BASES. WE SHOULD HEAD THESE WARNINGS. I GET IT, YOU GOT TO FEED
YOUR SAILORS. THERES A GALLEY AND COMMISSARY. ALL CAN UTILIZE THOSE OPTIONS.
THEY ARE THE SAFEST ROUTE. The numbers you keep posting are really not
accurate. Get testing on base get real accurate results. You want to keep
this base safe. Get testing done immediately. What must happen before we
act. The numbers do no justice. Let's be HONEST!!!!!

ANSWER:  First off, there is no emotion in my response so please do not read
my answer with a tone.  As I am sure you are aware, we have hundreds of
employees on base that cannot use the galley or commissary by law.  Japanese
employees and contractors need to be cared for too.  I noticed in your
comment above that you use the take-out service.  From the beginning of this
crisis, we have stated that this is community-wide effort, which requires
100% of everyone to get onboard with the orders in place and that if you
"see something" to "say something".  We are all accountable and the virus
does not discriminate.  With all due respect, my question to you is this,
did you correct these Sailors that you witnessed not following the current
guidance?  It takes everyone getting involved to defeat COVID-19 not just
active duty.  I have a daily phone call with all the bases in Region Japan,
take-out food continues throughout the Region, which is safer than take-out
food outside the gate.  Happy to discuss all of your concerns in person by 6
feet or by phone.  Please call my secretary at 252-3444.  Regarding testing,
Sasebo can only take samples, testing is done elsewhere and there are limits
to how many tests can be done per day.  Regarding the numbers of positive
COVID-19 cases being reported, we get our numbers straight from official
sources.

6) What is wrong and how we can remedy is if we could do testing. How do we
know that we have no Asymtamtic here in CFAS. WE NEED TO PROTECT ALL. JAPAN
IS IN A STATE IF EMERGENCY, it would be in the best interest to keep non
essential people home. This would greatly reduce the spread. Remember. We
still have MLC who live in town as well as Americans who live off base. Test
all so we can be reassured that we are really having no cases.

ANSWER:  Thank you for your concern.  Please know that our physicians,
nurses, and public health experts are staying up-to-date with all of the
current CDC guidance and caring for the base population on a daily basis.
Yes, in the ideal situation, everyone could be tested and resulted on the
same day, every day, to be 100% certain who has been infected and who has
not.  Unfortunately, that is not possible as there is not unlimited
capacity.  As you point out with your comment, asymptomatic spread is a real
concern, and that is why the base, the Navy, the United States, and now
Japan all have the same strategy -- wear masks and maintain physical
distancing as much as possible.  Anybody who does become symptomatic must
stay home!  We continue to push for expanded testing capacity, while at the
same time working locally to rapidly isolate and quarantine patients whose
symptoms are consistent with COVID-19.  Thank you for your understanding
during this truly trying time!

*******************
* Religious Ministries *
*******************
"Mother's Day in the Park"
Sunday worship services on May 10th will be outdoors and in person!

Schedule
0900    Catholic Mass                   Nimitz
1100    Sasebo Chapel Protestant        Nimitz
1100    Hario Chapel Protestant  Chapel Parking Lot

FACEBOOK LIVE Town Hall on "CFAS Chapel" Facebook Page Wed. May 6th at 4pm
to go over details.
- Physical distancing and mask required for all attenders.